Blog: Introducing contrastive search (#605)
huggingface/blog: introducing-csearch.md

**[Remark]** For users who are not familiar with text generation, please refer more details to this [[blog]](https://huggingface.co/blog/how-to-generate). 
****

<span id='demo'/>

### 2. Huggingface Demo of Contrastive Search: 

:hugs: Check out this awesome [[demo]](https://huggingface.co/spaces/joaogante/contrastive_search_generation) which directly compares contrastive search with other popular decoding methods (e.g. beam search, top-k sampling <a href='#references'>[3]</a>, and nucleus sampling <a href='#references'>[4]</a>).

****

<span id='installation'/>

### 3. Environment Installation: 

Before running the experiments in the following sections, please install the update-to-date version of `transformers` as
```yaml
pip install torch

> pip install "transformers>=4.24.0"

Reviewer: It's very hard to maintain blogs, so I'd recommend to pin the transformers version to 4.24

```suggestion
pip install "transformers==4.24.0"
```

```

****

<span id='problems_of_decoding_methods'/>

### 4. Problems of Existing Decoding Methods: 

> By far, the most widely-used decoding methods can be divided into two categories: (i) deterministic methods and (ii) stochastic methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Decoding methods can be divided into two categories: (i) deterministic methods and (ii) stochastic methods.

```

I think this holds universally true no? There is only deterministic and stochastic

print("Output:\n" + 100 * '-')
print(tokenizer.decode(output[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
print("" + 100 * '-')
```

<details open>
<summary><b>Model Output:</b></summary>
  
```
Output:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
DeepMind Company is a leading AI research company, with a focus on deep learning and deep 
learning-based systems.

The company's research is focused on the development of deep learning-based systems that 
can learn from large amounts of data, and that can be used to solve real-world problems.

DeepMind's research is also used by the UK government to develop new technologies for the 
UK's National Health Service.

DeepMind's research is also used by the UK government to develop new technologies for the 
UK's National Health Service.

DeepMind's research is also used by the UK government to develop new technologies
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```
</details>

**[Remark]** From the result generated by greedy search, we can see obvious pattern of repetitions.

<span id='stochastic_methods'/>

#### 4.2. Stochastic Methods:

> To address the issues posed by deterministic methods, stochastic methods generate text by introducing randomness during the decoding process. Two widely-used stochastic methods are (i) top-k sampling <a href='#references'>[3]</a> and (ii) nucleus sampling <a href='#references'>[4]</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address the issues posed by deterministic methods, stochastic methods generate text by introducing randomness during the decoding process. Two widely-used stochastic methods are (i) top-k sampling <a href='#references'>[3]</a> and (ii) nucleus sampling (also called top-p sampling) <a href='#references'>[4]</a>.

```

Think the transformers community is more familiar with the term `"top-p"`

model = GPT2LMHeadModel.from_pretrained('gpt2-large')

torch.manual_seed(0.)
output = model.generate(input_ids, do_sample=True, max_length=128, top_p=0.95, top_k=0)
print("Output:\n" + 100 * '-')
print(tokenizer.decode(output[0], skip_special_tokens=True))
print("" + 100 * '-')
```

<details open>
<summary><b>Model Output:</b></summary>
  
```
Output:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
DeepMind Company is a leading provider of AI-based research, development, and delivery of 
AI solutions for security, infrastructure, machine learning, communications, and so on."

'AI is not journalism'

Worse still was the message its researchers hoped would reach the world's media — that it 
was not really research, but rather a get-rich-quick scheme to profit from living forces' 
ignorance.

"The thing is, we know that people don't consciously assess the value of the others' 
information. They understand they will get the same on their own."

One example? Given the details of today
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```
</details>

> **[Remark]** While nucleus sampling is able to generate text that is free of repetitions, the semantic coherence of the generated text is not well-maintained. For instance, the generated phrase _'AI is not journalism'_ is incoherent with respect to the given prefix, i.e. _'DeepMind Company'_.

Reviewer: (nit) Lowering the temperature can help here. It could make sense to add one more sentence. 

"While this can partially be remedied by lowering the temperature. Lowering the temperature bringing nucleus sampling closer to greedy search, so it can be seen as a trade-off between greedy-search and nucleaus sampling. However, generally, it is very difficult to find a prompt and model independent temperature that avoids both the pitfalls of greedy search and nucleus sampling."

****

<span id='contrastive_search'/>

### 5. Contrastive Search: 

> In section, we introduce the new decoding method, i.e. ___Contrastive Search___, in details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we introduce a new decoding method, ___Contrastive Search___, in details.

```

<span id='contrastive_objective'/>

#### 5.1. Decoding Objective:

> Given the prefix text $x_{\textless t}$, the selection of the output token $x_{t}$ follows 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the prefix text \\( x_{\textless t} \\), the selection of the output token \\( x_{t} \\) follows 

```

Reviewer 2: Hi @patrickvonplaten -- After changing $ to \\(, the original latex cannot be properly displayed. Should we change it back to the original $?

<center class="half">
    <img src="assets/introducing_contrastive_search/formulation.png" width="750"/>
</center>

> where $V^{(k)}$ is the set of top-k predictions from the language model's probability distribution $p_{\theta}(v|x_{\textless t})$. The first term, i.e. _model confidence_, is the probability of the candidate $v$ predicted by the language model. The second term, _degeneration penalty_, measures how discriminative of $v$ with respect to the previous context $x_{\textless t}$ and the function $s(\cdot, \cdot)$ computes the cosine similarity between the token representations. More specifically, the degeneration penalty is defined as the maximum cosine similarity between the token representation of $v$, i.e. $h_{v}$, and that of all tokens in the context $x_{\textless t}$. Here, the candidate representation $h_{v}$ is computed by the language model given the concatenation of $x_{\textless t}$ and $v$. Intuitively, a larger degeneration penalty of $v$ means it is more similar (in the representation space) to the context, therefore more likely leading to the problem of model degeneration. The hyperparameter $\alpha$ regulates the importance of these two components. When $\alpha=0$, contrastive search degenerates to the vanilla greedy search.

Reviewer: same here for all latex

Reviewer: really cool explanation!

was not really research, but rather a get-rich-quick scheme to profit from living forces' 
ignorance.

"The thing is, we know that people don't consciously assess the value of the others' 
information. They understand they will get the same on their own."

One example? Given the details of today
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```
</details>

**[Remark]** While nucleus sampling is able to generate text that is free of repetitions, the semantic coherence of the generated text is not well-maintained. For instance, the generated phrase _'AI is not journalism'_ is incoherent with respect to the given prefix, i.e. _'DeepMind Company'_.

****

<span id='contrastive_search'/>

### 5. Contrastive Search: <a href='#all_catelogue'>[Back to Top]</a>

In section, we introduce the new decoding method, i.e. ___Contrastive Search___, in details.

<span id='contrastive_objective'/>

#### 5.1. Decoding Objective:

Given the prefix text $x_{\textless t}$, the selection of the output token $x_{t}$ follows 

<center class="half">
    <img src="assets/introducing_contrastive_search/formulation.png" width="750"/>

> </center>

Reviewer 2: I have tried to use latex instead, but, sadly, it fails to compile as a valid equation.

> </center>

Reviewer 3: </3

> </center>

Reviewer: @gante we can fix latex once it's merged - the syntax is a bit weird (it's explained here: https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/model-cards#can-i-write-latex-in-my-model-card )
